# Webpack
The library provides several tuneable [Webpack] configs, intended for different
kinds of target code (an [application][application config] or a [library][library config]), and environments
(development or production).

Common for every config variant, the library exposes it as a "config factory
function", which generates the actual configuration once called with necessary
options. That config can be further customized by the host code, and then passed
into [Webpack].

For example, one can use the production app config the following way.
In the host codebase the `/config/webpack/production.js` file is created:
```js title="/config/webpack/production.js"
const { merge } = require('webpack-merge');
const configFactory = require(
  '@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/app-production',
);

const baseConfig = configFactory({
  context: '/path/to/context/folder',
  entry: 'relative/path/to/entry/point',
});

module.exports = merge(baseConfig, {
  // Additional Webpack config to merge with the base one.
});
```

Then in the main `webpack.config.js` file do:
```js title="/webpack.config.js"
module.exports = function buildConfig(env) {
  const config = require(`./config/webpack/${env}.js`);
  // Some additional operations on config may happen here.
  return config;
}
```

## Application Config

### Base {#app-base}
```js
const configFactory = require('@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/app-base');

configFactory(options) => object;
```
This factory function creates
the base [Webpack] config for apps, which includes the setup common for both
[development](#app-dev) and [production](#app-prod) environments. The `options`
argument is an object with the following valid fields:

- **Required**:
  - `babelEnv` - **string** - Environment to use for [Babel] compilation.
  - `context` - **string** - Base URL for relative paths resolution.
  - `entry` - **string | string[]** - Entry point(s) for the "main" chunk(s).
    Under the hood the config will prepend them by some polyfills, like
    [babel-polyfill](https://babeljs.io/docs/usage/polyfill/),
    [nodelist-foreach-polyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodelist-foreach-polyfill),
    _etc._
  - `mode` - **string** - [Webpack mode](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/mode/).

- **Optional**:
  - `babelLoaderOptions` - **object** - Overrides default [Babel] loader options
    for JSX and SVG files.

  - `cssLocalIdent` - **string** - Template for CSS classnames generated by
    the [Webpack]'s `css-loader`. The value is passed into the `localIdentName`
    option of the loader. It should match corresponding option in the [Babel]
    config. Defaults `hash:base64:6`.
  - `dontEmitBuildInfo` - **boolean** - Set **true** to opt out of writing
    generated "[build info]" data to the disk.

  - `dontUseProgressPlugin` - **boolean** - Set **true** to opt out of including
    the [Webpack]'s [ProgressPlugin] into the config. This is intended for test
    scenarious, to avoid polluting test logs with detailed console output from
    test [Webpack] builds.

  - `fs` - **object** - Alternative filesystem (_e.g._ [memfs]) to use instead
    of the standard Node's filesystem to output artifacts created during
    the Webpack config generation by the factory (_e.g._ "[build info]", _etc._).

  - `publicPath` - **string** - <Link id="app-base-public-path" />
    Public URL of the output directory when
    referenced in a browser ([see Webpack docs for details](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/output/#outputpublicpath)). The config factory will automatically
    append `/` symbol to the end of given value, thus `publicPath` values should
    not include it.
    :::caution BEWARE
    When used alongside SSR, `publicPath` value provided into Webpack must
    match prefixes of asset URLs generated by Babel during SSR. In particular,
    if you use the [standard server-side Babel preset](/docs/api/configs/babel#server-side-base-assets-output-path)
    be sure to set its `baseAssetsOutputPath` to match `publicPath`.
    :::

  - `workbox` - **boolean | object** - When set the
    [Workbox's InjectManifest plugin](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/workbox/modules/workbox-webpack-plugin/#injectmanifest-plugin)
    is included into the array of [Webpack] plugins, and it generates server
    worker for browser. If the value is an object it is merged into options
    passed into the plugin, otherwise default options are used:
    ```json
    {
      "importWorkboxFrom": "local",
      "swSrc": "@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/workbox/default.js",
      "swDest": "__service-worker.js"
    }
    ```

    If the service worker is generated by this option, it will be automatically
    initiated at the client side by the standard
    [client-side initialization script](/docs/api/functions/client)
    provided by this library.
    
    Note that `swDest`'s value cannot be overriden by config options provided
    via `workbox` object.

  - `keepBuildInfo` - **boolean | object** - Allows to re-use "[build info]"
    data from a previous Webpack build.
    - If an object is provided, it is used as [build info].
    - If **true** value is provided, the factory attempts to read [build info]
      data from the `.build-info` file in the "context" folder of the build,
      and it falls back to generating from scratch and using a new [build info]
      data if `.build-info` file cannot be read.

  - `outputPath` - **string** - Output build path, relative to the `context`.
    Defaults to "`build/web-public`".

  - `sitemap` - **function | string** - The path to JS or JSON config for
    sitemap. It can be relative to the context, and can be a factory, which
    returns the config. The config should be compatible with [`sitemap` library]
     library, and if
    provided the Webpack config factory will use it to gererate `sitemap.xml`
    file in the output folder, and then serve it from the app root.

    :::tip Complex Sitemap Setup
    In case a complex sitemap setup is needed (_e.g._ a runtime sitemap
    generation, or serving the sitemap from alternative routes, _etc._),
    instead of this option use
    [onExpressSetup](/docs/react-utils/docs/api/functions/server#onexpressjssetup)
    option of the [server factory](/docs/react-utils/docs/api/functions/server)
    to mount a custom sitemap controller implementing necessary sitemap logic
    on the desired route(s) of created ExpressJS server.
    :::

The config factory returns a config object which
- Bundles font assets (EOF, OTF, SVG, TTF, WOFF, WOFF2 files)
  from the `src/assets/fonts` folder of source code and emits them into
  the `[PUBLIC_PATH]/fonts` folder.
- Bundles image assets (GIF, JPEG, JPG, PNG files) from any folder of
  source code and emits them into the `[PUBLIC_PATH]/images` folder.
- Bundle SCSS files from any folder of source code, beside `node_modules` and
  its subfolders. The files are compiled, bundled, and extracted into
  `[PUBLIC_PATH]/[CHUNK_NAME].css` chunks.
- Bundles CSS files from any folder of source code. The files are bundled and
  extracted into `[PUBLIC_PATH]/[CHUNK_NAME].css` chunks.
- Bundles JS, JSX, and SVG files. They are compiled and emitted into
  `[PUBLIC_PATH]/[CHUNK_NAME].js` chunks, using [Babel] environment
  specified in the factory options, and
  [Babel config for Webpack](/docs/api/configs/babel#client-side).
- Automatically configures the following path aliases for the compilation
  (relative paths starting with these segments are resolved relative to
  the corresponding folders):
  - **assets** for `[CONTEXT]/src/assets`;
  - **components** for `[CONTEXT]/src/shared/components`;
  - **fonts** for `[CONTEXT]/src/assets/fonts`;
  - **styles** for `[CONTEXT]/src/styles`.
- `resolve.symlinks` Webpack option is set **false** to avoid problems
  with resolution of assets from packages linked with `npm link`.
- These global variables are automatically eemulated inside the output
  JS bundle:
  - **BUILD_RNDKEY** - A random 32 bit key that can be used
    for encryption, it is set just as a global variable accessible in
    the code;
  - **BUILD_TIMESTAMP** - UTC timestamp of the beginning of the build;
  - **FRONT_END** - It is set ***true** inside the bundle, so that shared code
    can use it to determine that it is executed at the client side.
- The config opts to polyfill the `__dirname` global variable, and to ignore
  imports of the `fs` Node package;
- By default the config factory also generates and emits
  "[build info]" data.

### Development {#app-dev}
```js
const configFactory = require('@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/app-development');

configFactory(options) => object;
```

This factory function creates [Webpack] configuration for **development**
environment. It accepts the same options as the [base app config], and does
the same stuff, with the following differences.

- It accepts additional options:
  - `dontUseHmr` - **boolean** - Set **true** to opt out of including
    HMR-specific bits into the generated config. It is intended for test
    scenarious, where without additional efforts, a code bundled with
    development config would trigger HMR failure warnings.
  - `dontUseReactGlobalStateDebugging` - **boolean** - Set **true** to
    opt out of injecting **true** value into `REACT_GLOBAL_STATE_DEBUG` global
    variable in development environment. This variable would enable debug
    logging related to the [React Global State](/docs/api/utils/react-global-state),
    and disabling that is intended for test scenarious, where these debug logs
    would unnecessary pollute test logs.

  - `cssExtractionOptions` &mdash; **object** &mdash; Optional. Customizes
    settings of [MiniCssExtractPlugin] (it emits CSS assets from the build),
    which is included into the config with the following configuration:
    ```js
    {
      chunkFilename: '[id].css',
      filename: '[id].css',
      ...ops.cssExtractionOptions,
    }
    ```

- It also:
  - Enforces **development** [Babel] environment, and sets its `cssLocalIdent`
    argument equal `[path][name]___[local]___[hash:base64:6]` to generate verbose
    classnames for CSS modules, which are handy for debug purposes.
  - Adds [`webpack-hot-middleware/client?reload=true`](https://github.com/glenjamin/webpack-hot-middleware)
    to entrypoints, which is necessary for HMR (Hot Module Reloading) setup.
  - Emulates the following environment variables:
    - **BABEL_ENV** and **NODE_ENV** are both set equal **development**.
    - **DEV_TOOLS** is set equal **true**.
    - **REACT_GLOBAL_STATE_DEBUG** is set equal **true**.
  - Adds the following plugins:
    - [HotModuleReplacementPlugin](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/hot-module-replacement-plugin/) and
      [react-refresh-webpack-plugin](https://github.com/pmmmwh/react-refresh-webpack-plugin)
      (these are required for HMR).

### Production {#app-prod}
```js
const configFactory = require('@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/app-production');

configFactory(options) => object;
```
The factory function creates [Webpack] configuration for **production**
environment. It accepts the same options as the [base](#app-base) app config,
and does the same stuff, then on top of that it:

- Accepts additional options:
  - `cssExtractionOptions` &mdash; **object** &mdash; Optional. Customizes
    settings of [MiniCssExtractPlugin] (it emits CSS assets from the build),
    which is included into the config with the following configuration:
    ```js
    {
      chunkFilename: '[contenthash].css',
      filename: '[contenthash].css',
      ...ops.cssExtractionOptions,
    }
    ```

- It also:
  - Enforces **production** [Babel] environment.
  - Emulates the following environment variables:
    - **BABEL_ENV** and **NODE_ENV** are both set equal to **production**.
  - Adds the following plugins:
    - [CSS Minimizer Webpack Plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-minimizer-webpack-plugin);
    - [UglifyJsPlugin](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/uglifyjs-webpack-plugin/).

### Build Info
While creating a [Webpack] config for app builds,
the [base app config factory][base app config] generates
a "[build info]" object with the following fields:

- `key` - **string** - A random 32-bit encryption key.

  :::caution BEWARE
  This key is **not secure**, as it is send to the client side within the JS
  bundle. During the runtime it is only used to encrypt at the server side,
  and then decrypt at the client side internal app's config and data injected
  into the initial HTML markup during SSR. This way we avoid sending these data
  as plain text within HTML, but apparently anybody having both HTML and JS
  bundle at hands (_e.g._ client browser) is able to easily decrypt these data.
  :::

- `publicPath` - **string** - A copy of build's `publicPath` value.
- `useServiceWorker` - **boolean** - A flag indicating whether service worker
  should be used by the app.

This object is made accessible to the app during the runtime both at the client
side (it is injected into the bundled JS code), and at the server side (see
[isomorphy].[getBuildInfo()]). The [config factory][base app config] writes this
object into the "context" folder of the build, as `.build-info` file (it can be
opted out by `dontEmitBuildInfo` option of the config factory, also `fs` option
can be used to output the file into a virtual filesystem).

The `keepBuildInfo` option of the [base app config factory][base app config]
allows to reuse old "[build info]" data, which is inteded for development and
test scenarious.

:::info Changelog
- In the library versions **v1.17.2** &div; **v1.17.4** the "[build info]"
  object was also exposed via the `.buildInfo` field attached to the standard
  config factories after each build. This was dropped in **v1.17.5** in favour
  of passing it via a virtual filesystem (see `fs` option of
  the [config factory][base app config]).
:::

## Library Config
### Base {#lib-base}
```js
const configFactory = require('@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/lib-base');

configFactory(options) => object;
```
This factory function creates
base [Webpack] config for libraries, which contains the core setup common
for [development](#lib-dev) and [production](#lib-prod) library targets.
The `options` argument is an object with the following valid fields:

- **Required**:
  - `babelEnv` - **string** - [Babel] environment.
  - `context` - **string** - Base URL for resolution of relative config paths.
  - `entry` - **string | string[]** - Entry point(s). The config may prepend
    them by necessary polyfills.
  - `library` - **string** - Library name. It is important for proper resolution
    of library assets.

- **Optional**:
  - `babelLoaderOptions` - **object** - Overrides default [Babel] options for
    JSX and SVG loading.
  - `cssLocalIdent` - **string** - The template for CSS classnames generated by
    [Webpack]'s `css-loader`. It should match the corresponding setting in
    [Babel] config. Defaults to `hash:base64:6`.
  - `dontUseProgressPlugin` - **boolean** - Set **true** to opt out of including
    the [Webpack]'s [ProgressPlugin] into the config. This is intended for test
    scenarious, to avoid polluting test logs with detailed console output from
    test [Webpack] builds.

  - `cssExtractionOptions` &mdash; **object** &mdash; Customizes settings of
    [MiniCssExtractPlugin] (it emits CSS assets from the build), which is
    included into the config with the following configuration:
    ```js
    {
      filename: 'style.css',
      ...ops.cssExtractionOptions,
    }
    ```

  - `mode` - **string** - [Webpack mode](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/mode/).
  - `outputPath` - **string** - Build output path. Defaults `build`.

The generated config does the following:
- References to font asset (EOF, OTF, SVG, TTF, WOFF, WOFF2) files located in
  the `src/assets/fonts` folder of the library's source code are rewritten to
  to `LIBRARY_NAME/src/assets/fonts/FILENAME.FILE_EXTENSION` so that the host
  package of the library is able to find and bundle them.
- Bundle SCSS files from any folder of source code, beside `node_modules` and
  its subfolders. The files are compiled, bundled and extracted into
  the `build/{type}/style.css` chunks.
- Bundles JS, JSX, and SVG files; they are compiled into
  `build/{type}/web.bundle.js` chunks, using the [Babel] environment
  specified in the factory options, and
  [client-side Babel config](/docs/api/configs/babel#client-side).
- Sets The following path aliases (relative paths starting with these segments
  are resolved relative to the corresponding folders):
  - **assets** for `[CONTEXT]/src/assets`.
  - **components** for `[CONTEXT]/src/shared/components`.
  - **fonts** for `[CONTEXT]/src/assets/fonts`.
  - **styles** for `[CONTEXT]/src/styles`.
- Sets `resolve.symlinks` [Webpack] option to **false** to avoid problems
  with resolution of assets from packages linked with `npm link`.
- Declares the following packages as externals:
  - `@babel/runtime`
  - `@dr.pogodin/react-global-state`
  - `@dr.pogodin/react-themes`
  - `@dr.pogodin/react-utils`
  - `axios`
  - `dayjs`
  - `lodash`
  - `qs`
  - `react`
  - `react-dom`
  - `react-helmet`
  - `react-router-dom`
  - `uuid`

### Development {#lib-dev}
```js
const configFactory = require('@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/lib-development');

configFactory(options) => object;
```
Extends and tunes the [base library config](#lib-base) for **development**
environment. This factory function accepts the same options, and does the same
stuff. On top of that it modifies the template for generated classnames to equal
`[path][name]___[local]___[hash:base64:6]` which is handy for debug purposes,
and does some other small modifications of config.

### Production {#lib-prod}
```js
const configFactory = require('@dr.pogodin/react-utils/config/webpack/lib-production');

configFactory(options) => object;
```
Extends and tunes the [base library config](#lib-base) for **production**
environment. This factory function accepts the same options, and does all
the same stuff, and on top of that slightly modifies the resulting config
as required for production needs.

[Application Config]: #application-config
[base app config]: #app-base
[Babel]: https://babeljs.io/
[Build Info]: #build-info
[Library Config]: #library-config
[memfs]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/memfs
[MiniCssExtractPlugin]: https://webpack.js.org/plugins/mini-css-extract-plugin/
[ProgressPlugin]: https://webpack.js.org/plugins/progress-plugin/
[Webpack]: https://webpack.js.org
[`sitemap` library]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/sitemap
[getBuildInfo()]: /docs/api/utils/isomorphy#getbuildinfo
[isomorphy]: /docs/api/utils/isomorphy
